---
title: Tarkovsky's Flame
date: 2017-10-30 00:00:00 Z
image: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/52be02f2e4b05b3d6c3faf0e/56c284189f7266120125de8f/5550b5f4e4b09b5954579b88/1504187115755/Photo+May+01%2C+16+44+33.jpg?format=1500w
---

When the world is brash, fast, and stupid, we must seek out what is quiet, slow, and intelligent to brace ourselves against the world’s madness. I have been under the influence of Russian filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky’s movies for the last few weeks, finding them to be a source of the comfort and beauty which the world seems not equipped to provide right now. Tarkovsky’s movies could be interpreted as sad, but it is a typical American trait to mistake slowness for sadness.

America’s dysfunction is now wed to its antagonistic relationship with Russia, and I take comfort that the Russian powers that be did not care much for Tarkovsky either. They found his spirituality, ambiguity, and grandiosity dangerous, so they embargoed and delayed all of his films. But I adore well-earned spirituality, ambiguity, and grandiosity, so of course I like Tarkovsky too. Everything his countrymen found dangerous about his work I find essential.

I’m not alone in thinking this: throw a Criterion Blu-ray far enough and you’ll hit a group of cinephiles fawning over his seven movies. Some even say they are the best films ever made, and I agree on many days, simply because Tarkovsky’s films speak to the patient and deep parts of me I want to nurture, without being naive about the difficulty of doing this work.

The quality of what we receive from art is limited by our ability to pay attention to it. Tarkovsky’s films take attention and patience: they are slow and ponderous environments to experience. Usually there is no clear story. This will be frustrating to many people, which is no fault of theirs (everyone comes to a movie with different expectations), but it is important to point out that so many crowd pleasers were born from his films. Movies like The Revenant and Inception play checkers with Tarkovsky’s chess set. What these films lack is also what the world needs, and what I find myself hungering for in every aspect of the made world—whether it is film, internet culture, or politics. I have heard others long for it in many different ways as well, so I will risk triteness and say it direct: we need grace; we need tenderness; we need depth; we need soul.