---
title: Automotive Classifieds
date: 2021-03-18 11:27:00 +11:00
---

When I was in primary school, I had a friend who I desperately wanted to be like. I'll spare you the details (for the sake of her privacy adn my dignity), but overall she was an intelligent, somewhat athletic and nice girl from a good home. I remember she'd frequently enter the Corinella colouring contests in the weekend Herald Sun newspaper. Unfortunately, at my house we had a subscription to The Age - the boring adult newspaper with no Corinella. I can only recall one time where my parents purchased the Herald Sun and allowed me to enter the Corinella contest for the week. One time! 

I began to accept the fact that a Herald Sun subscription would never eventuate in my house, something I am incomprehensibly grateful for now that I'm older and understand the difference between real journalism and...not real journalism. This was also around the same time that my sisters and I convinced our parents, in one sitting (after dinnertime, likely while eating ice cream) that we just **had** to have a Playstation 2 console. Off we went the next day, bringing home the goods: the PS2, 2 free games (Gran Turismo 3 and Ratchet & Clank) and Singstar 80s (Mum's only request). 

Cars had always been a part of my life. I think European migrants hold their cars as badges of honour. I came to this country on a boat! I worked so hard! Look at the beautiful Ford Fairmont under my car port! I don't blame them, and I know I'm going to be exactly the same one day. 

Playing Gran Turismo 3 helped me learn different makes and models, some only sold overseas, some badged differently in Australia to what was featured on the game. This was around the time I found joy and entertainment from the automotive classifieds section in the boring Age paper. This was back before Carsales existed, when there'd be 1-2 full broadsheet pages worth of car ads. I'd regularly flick through and look at the vehicles on sale, how much they were going for, how many kilometres mileage they had on them, etc. This became a special interest of mine that I kept up with over time. You could point at a car on the street and I'd be able to tell you what it was. You could point at a number plate and I'd be able to tell you the car's year based off whatever combination of letters and numbers it was. I'm convinced I'll probably be like this for the rest of my life.

Automotive ownership has been a mediocre experience for me - far less enthralling than I'd imagine it to be when I was younger. I've driven Volvos, Fords, Subarus, Hyundais, Kias, a Mercedes SL500 (for 2 minutes). My first car was a 2006 Subaru Outback 3.0L H6 whose doors had been opened straight into concrete pillars or traffic poles. It was a beautiful car with lots of power but the fuel economy was poor and the head gaskets were notoriously bad in those models. I think we sold it at around 125,000km mileage before there'd be any serious problems that needed fixing. My next car was a direct substitute, a 2008 Subaru Liberty wagon. 2.0L, 4 cylinder. Slightly better fuel economy and a bit of a zippier drive thanks to the lower position on the road. I loved that car, but 2020 was an awfully boring year and I was sick of my old Subarus. Here enters my current daily driver, a 2011 Saab 9-3. The last 9-3 to be made at the tail end of their sales in Australia. 

The Saab is an interesting car. A turbo throttle indicator on the dashboard. Really crappy interior plastic wrapping on the inside of the door handles that's prone to cracking. A key ignition well mounted near the gear shifter. Incredibly beautiful cream leather seats. Heavy doors! A refrigerated glove box for your chocolates (specifically mentioned in the owner's manual). Heated seats as standard. The turbo makes it a fun drive, but the suspension is hard and not built for the pothole ridden roads in my city. There's also a strange white dust lining the paint in some crevices around doors. For a second hand car, there are many indications that it was barely driven.

Maybe buying a car that doesn't exist anymore was a dumb idea, but it was a good trade. 80% less kilometres and 3 years newer than my prior car, Swedish vs Japanese, and a cool profit from selling one and buying the other. 